# Meeting Minutes – Team Meeting 6

**Project Name:** Pose Estimation for Livestock  
**Facilitator:** Elwood  
**Prepared by:** Raymond  
**Mode:** Online (Discord)  
**Date:** Monday, 01 September 2025  
**Time:** 9:00 PM  
**Attendees:** Project Team  
**Absent:** None  

---

| # | Agenda Item | Description / Comments | Decision / Action | Who? | Items for Escalation |
|---|-------------|------------------------|-------------------|------|----------------------|
| 1 | What has been completed? | Group demo presented, discussed dataset organization | Demo results shared, dataset structure reviewed | Project Team | None |
| 2 | What is in progress? | Assigning TODOs for code improvements (if feasible) | Define code responsibilities as next step | Dev Team | None |
| 3 | What is working well? | Team collaboration on demo testing; collected examples of good and bad images | Use these images for further testing and validation | Project Team | None |
| 4 | What needs improvement? | Dataset organization clarity + need clear folder structures | Standardize dataset organization | Data Team | None |
| 5 | Reminders | Start drafting report sections | Stick to assigned report parts | Project Team | None |
| 6 | What needs to be completed before the next meeting? | Report section assignments: <br> - Introduction + Reflections/Conclusions → Tommy <br> - System Specs & Architecture + Docs (GitHub & Report) → Elwood & Benjamin <br> - Discipline Knowledge & Tools → Alice <br> - Quality of Group Processes → Theo <br> - Feasible Plan & Risk Mitigation → Raymond | Drafts to be ready before next team check-in | Assigned Members | None |
