cow-detectection/cow_detectection/modeling/yolov8/README.md, before:

# YOLOv8: Training & Inference

This repository provides two convenience scripts for Ultralytics YOLOv8:

- `train.py` — trains a detector on a dataset in standard YOLO format.

- `predict.py` — runs inference on one image or all images in a folder.

The goal is a minimal, reproducible workflow with clear outputs and sensible defaults.

## Usage

### Inference

predict.py will:

- Load weights/yolov8m.pt by default.
- Accept `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.png`, `.bmp`, `.tiff`, `.gif`.

```bash
# Single image
python predict.py /path/to/image.jpg

# All images in a folder
python predict.py /path/to/folder
```

Will write predictions (images with boxes) under:

```bash
yolov7/results/run/
```

### Training

The command to be run to train the model.

```bash
python train.py /path/to/dataset \
  --weights weights/yolov8m.pt \
  --epochs 200 \
  --batch 16 \
  --imgsz 640 \
  --name exp1
```

###### Memory tips (GPU OOM)

If CUDA out of memory occurs:

- Reduce batch size, e.g. --batch 8 or --batch 4.
- Use a smaller model, e.g. --weights yolov8n.pt or yolov8s.pt.
- Reduce image size, e.g. --imgsz 512.

## Dataset Layout (YOLO format)

This is the expected format of the training data.

```
<dataset_root>/
  ├─ train/
  │   ├─ images/*.jpg|png|bmp|tif|tiff
  │   └─ labels/*.txt            # one file per image; "class cx cy w h" per line
  ├─ val/
  │   ├─ images/*.jpg|png|bmp|tif|tiff
  │   └─ labels/*.txt
  └─ data.yaml  (optional)
```

## Importing run_inference from another module

If the package layout includes **init**.py files, run_inference can be imported
directly:

```python
from ultralytics import YOLO
from cow_detectection.modeling.yolov8.predict import run_inference

model = YOLO("weights/yolov8m.pt")
output = run_inference(model, "/path/to/image.jpg")
```

> [!NOTE]
> If output_dir is empty ("" or None), it won’t save images; otherwise it saves
> under the specified directory.

Commit message:

updated documentation (missing diagrams) and added plots to yolomodel

cow-detectection/cow_detectection/modeling/yolov8/README.md, after:

# YOLOv8: Training & Inference

This repository provides two convenience scripts for Ultralytics YOLOv8:

- `train.py` — trains a detector on a dataset in standard YOLO format.

- `predict.py` — runs inference on one image or all images in a folder.

The goal is a minimal, reproducible workflow with clear outputs and sensible defaults.

## Usage

### Inference

`predict.py` will:

- Load weights/yolov8m.pt by default.
- Accept `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.png`, `.bmp`, `.tiff`, `.gif`.

```bash
# Single image
python predict.py /path/to/image.jpg

# All images in a folder
python predict.py /path/to/folder
```

Will write predictions (images with boxes) under:

```bash
yolov7/results/run/
```

### Training

A sample command to be run to train the model.

```bash
python train.py /path/to/dataset \
  --weights weights/yolov8m.pt \
  --epochs 200 \
  --batch 16 \
  --imgsz 640 \
  --name exp1
```

| Arguments     | Type | Default              | Description                                                                            | Simple                                                                       |
| ------------- | ---- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dataset_dir` | str  | — (required)         | Path to dataset directory (YOLO format).                                               | Folder where your images/labels live.                                        |
| `--weights`   | str  | `weights/yolov8m.pt` | Initial checkpoint to start from.                                                      | Which model to start from.                                                   |
| `--imgsz`     | int  | `640`                | Training image size (square). Common choices: 416, 640, 768.                           | How big to resize images.                                                    |
| `--epochs`    | int  | `100`                | Number of training epochs.                                                             | How many times all data is used to train.                                    |
| `--batch`     | int  | `16`                 | Batch size per step. Tune to fit your GPU memory.                                      | How many images to concurrenly train at once.                                |
| `--device`    | str  | `None`               | Compute device: `'0'` (GPU id), `'0,1'` (multi-GPU), `'cpu'`, `'mps'` (Apple Silicon). | Specifies waht hardware to use to train.                                     |
| `--project`   | str  | `results/training`   | Root folder for run outputs (weights, logs, plots).                                    | Top-level output folder.                                                     |
| `--name`      | str  | `run`                | Subfolder name for this run.                                                           | Folder name for this experiment.                                             |
| `--workers`   | int  | `8`                  | Dataloader worker threads. Reduce on Windows if you see hangs.                         | How many helpers to increase training speed (adjust based hardware).         |
| `--patience`  | int  | `50`                 | Early-stopping patience (epochs without val improvement).                              | Limit to stop early if training not improving.                               |
| `--seed`      | int  | `0`                  | Random seed for reproducibility.                                                       | Removes "randomness", keeps results repeatable. Like a minecraft world seed. |

###### Memory tips (GPU OOM)

If CUDA out of memory occurs:

- Reduce batch size, e.g. --batch 8 or --batch 4.
- Use a smaller model, e.g. --weights yolov8n.pt or yolov8s.pt.
- Reduce image size, e.g. --imgsz 512.

###### View Training Results (Graphs)

```bash
# Option A: point to a run directory (containing results.csv)
python plots.py /path/to/results/training/exp1 --smooth 5

# Option B: point directly to results.csv
python plots.py /path/to/results/training/exp1/results.csv --smooth 5
```

This will write the loss results from training to `./results/training/exp1/plots/` or
the specified directory.

## Dataset Layout (YOLO format)

This is the expected format of the training data.

```
<dataset_root>/
  ├─ train/
  │   ├─ images/*.jpg|png|bmp|tif|tiff
  │   └─ labels/*.txt            # one file per image; "class cx cy w h" per line
  ├─ val/
  │   ├─ images/*.jpg|png|bmp|tif|tiff
  │   └─ labels/*.txt
  └─ data.yaml  (optional)
```

## Importing run_inference from another module

If the package layout includes **init**.py files, `run_inference` can be imported
directly:

```python
from ultralytics import YOLO
from cow_detectection.modeling.yolov8.predict import run_inference

model = YOLO("weights/yolov8m.pt")
output = run_inference(model, "/path/to/image.jpg")
```

> [!NOTE]
> If output_dir is empty ("" or None), it won’t save images; otherwise it saves
> under the specified directory.
